[FRIEREN] Long-range magic
is a fickle thing
c0000001
and rather difficult to master.
c0000002
Success requires a combination
of three key factors
c0000003
that are essential
to all mages.
c0000004
There's the amount mana
utilized,
c0000005
the strength
at which it's fired,
c0000006
and the level of control
you have over it.
c0000007
But you know that much,
correct?
c0000008
Yes.
c0000009
[FRIEREN] Earlier,
your magic dissipated
c0000010
before it reached its target.
c0000011
That tells me
your levels of mana
c0000012
and your firing strength
are both lacking.
c0000013
These are not issues
that one can fix overnight.
c0000014
Regardless of your talent,
c0000015
such skills will take years
to master.
c0000016
Hmm.
c0000017
[FRIEREN]
That said...
c0000018
the level of control you have
over your magic is very high.
c0000019
That's the area where
most people tend to struggle,
c0000020
but you're already exhibiting
great strength there.
c0000021
My advice is to be
patient with yourself.
c0000022
[FERN]
All right.
c0000023
♪
c0000024
[footsteps approaching]
c0000025
[HEITER] Is Fern's
training coming along smoothly?
c0000026
In a short four years,
c0000027
she's learned more
than most do in ten.
c0000028
I don't feel this is
a good thing.
c0000029
She is studying too hard.
c0000030
Perhaps. Nothing seems to
pull her out of the woods.
c0000031
Even so. I'm glad she's found
something she loves.
c0000032
Regardless,
she's still a long way
c0000033
from becoming a proper mage.
c0000034
I'll have
deciphered the grimoire
c0000035
before she reaches that status.
c0000036
Is that so?
c0000037
[FRIEREN]
You know, Heiter.
c0000038
The odds this text contains
anything pertaining to--
c0000039
Uh?
c0000040
Heiter?
c0000041
[wind howling]
c0000042
You can wipe that look of pity
off your face.
c0000043
I consider the fact
I stayed on my feet
c0000044
for so long a minor miracle.
c0000045
[FRIEREN] I will try to be
quick with my work.
c0000046
Thank you, my friend.
c0000047
Fern, I need you with Heiter.
c0000048
He collapsed.
Put your training on hold.
c0000049
[FERN] But I still haven't
shot through the boulder.
c0000050
I have no doubt you'll achieve
it eventually. Right now--
c0000051
[FERN]
It cannot be "eventually."
c0000052
Huh?
c0000053
[FERN]
When "eventually" comes...
c0000054
Master Heiter
will have passed away.
c0000055
That man saved my life,
you know.
c0000056
♪
c0000057
[whimpers]
c0000058
[HEITER]
Throwing away your life now
c0000059
would be an utter waste.
c0000060
"A waste," Mister?
c0000061
A long time ago,
I lost someone, too.
c0000062
He was a dear companion
whom I cherished very much.
c0000063
His heart was made of gold
and his nerves made of steel.
c0000064
He would sooner sacrifice
his life
c0000065
than abandon someone in need.
c0000066
If he was still here,
c0000067
and I was the one
six feet below,
c0000068
more innocent lives
could've been saved.
c0000069
Since I'm not the type
for such selflessness.
c0000070
I planned to live out
the rest of my days quietly,
c0000071
but before
I could hole up for good,
c0000072
I realized something.
c0000073
If I sat and died in silence,
c0000074
all I learned about friendship,
strength of will, and courage.
c0000075
All the precious memories
we had made,
c0000076
they would vanish
like they had never been.
c0000077
Hmm.
c0000078
[HEITER] If there is
even one precious memory
c0000079
tucked within the walls
of your mind.
c0000080
Then I think it would be
a waste for you to die.
c0000081
[FERN] Master Heiter fears
dying now more than ever
c0000082
because it means I'll be alone.
c0000083
I have to show him he did
the right thing back then.
c0000084
Saving my life can't be
his final regret.
c0000085
I don't care if it's as a mage
or whatever else,
c0000086
learning some kind of skill
to support myself
c0000087
is my way of repaying him.
c0000088
He's the reason I'm here
c0000089
and I need him to know
c0000090
I'll be all right
when he's gone.
c0000091
[FRIEREN]
Do you remember everything
c0000092
that I've taught you so far?
c0000093
-Yes.
-Good, then do as you like.
c0000094
[smiles]
c0000095
♪
c0000096
c0000097
[smiles]
c0000098
There weren't any spells
for bringing back the dead
c0000099
or granting immortality.
c0000100
Worth the try.
c0000101
Did you know that?
c0000102
An immeasurable fear
of death lives within us all.
c0000103
If such spells did exist,
c0000104
Ewig most surely would've
cast them on himself.
c0000105
Then why bother?
c0000106
Uh...
c0000107
How's Fern?
Is she growing strong?
c0000108
She has room to improve
in some areas.
c0000109
But it wouldn't be incorrect
to call her a proper mage.
c0000110
[smiles]
c0000111
Excellent.
So, she made it in time.
c0000112
Hmm?
c0000113
It'll be hard for you to say
she'll get in your way,
c0000114
now won't it?
c0000115
Uh...
c0000116
Will you bring her with you
and strengthen her skills?
c0000117
[FRIEREN]
Forgive me, Heiter,
c0000118
but I must draw a line.
c0000119
She would only get in my way.
c0000120
You've deceived me, didn't you?
c0000121
[chuckles]
Hmm.
c0000122
Your payment for decrypting
the grimoire is in the desk.
c0000123
I must ask you leave
this place tonight.
c0000124
For what reason?
c0000125
I'm sure you can see
c0000126
that I am not much longer
for this world.
c0000127
At such a young age,
c0000128
that child
has already experienced
c0000129
more than enough loss
c0000130
to last the rest
of her lifetime.
c0000131
Frieren.
c0000132
Please take care of Fern
for me.
c0000133
No point
in feigning courage again.
c0000134
-Not now.
-Ah.
c0000135
[FRIEREN] She has been ready
to say goodbye
c0000136
to you for a long while.
c0000137
Your only focus before you die
c0000138
should be giving her
a proper farewell.
c0000139
And making as many memories
as you can.
c0000140
[sniffles]
c0000141
[crying]
c0000142
[HEITER]
Oh, Frieren.
c0000143
You really are a kind girl.
c0000144
♪
c0000145
[FRIEREN]
So...why did you save Fern?
c0000146
[breathes]
c0000147
♪
c0000148
[HEITER]
Because that is what
c0000149
Himmel the Hero would've done.
c0000150
[smiles]
c0000151
[FRIEREN]
You're right.
c0000152
A good guiding voice.
c0000153
Perhaps I'll listen as well.
c0000154
[church bells ringing]
c0000155
I really
can't thank you enough.
c0000156
Without your help and guidance,
c0000157
I couldn't have repaid
Master Heiter.
c0000158
Then you should be
thanking him for deceiving me.
c0000159
So long, corrupt priest.
c0000160
Well, shall we be off?
c0000161
♪
c0000162
[FRIEREN]
Stop there, Fern.
c0000163
That's plenty.
c0000164
[MALE FARMER 2A]
Thank you kindly for your help.
c0000165
As for your payment, take this.
c0000166
We've been doing
such simple work lately.
c0000167
Thus is the nature
of adventuring.
c0000168
What did we get paid
in this time?
c0000169
[FRIEREN]
More folk magic.
c0000170
It's a spell that produces
warm tea.
c0000171
We'll have to
try this out later.
c0000172
[sighs]
c0000173
[FERN] The other day
we learned a spell
c0000174
that cleans rust
from bronze statues.
c0000175
And before that
there was the one
c0000176
-for turning sweet grapes sour.
-Sour?
c0000177
Uh-huh.
c0000178
[FERN] You keep collecting
the strangest spells.
c0000179
[FRIEREN]
That is my hobby.
c0000180
It sounds to me like
c0000181
you really do love magic,
Mistress Frieren.
c0000182
[FRIEREN] Only somewhat.
The same as you.
c0000183
I, uh,
feel we're a bit different.
c0000184
[FRIEREN]
We're the same.
c0000185
[FEMALE HERBALIST 1A]
You're absolutely sure
c0000186
you wouldn't mind
doing me a favor?
c0000187
As an herbalist,
c0000188
I can't say I have any spells
to teach you in return.
c0000189
That's all right.
c0000190
Any information we can learn
c0000191
on local flora
is helpful enough.
c0000192
[FEMALE HERBALIST 1A]
There he is.
c0000193
[FERN]
A statue of Himmel the Hero.
c0000194
[HERBALIST 1A] The poor boy
is in terrible shape.
c0000195
I would clean him myself,
c0000196
but it's too much
for one old lady.
c0000197
And I can't convince
the other villagers to care.
c0000198
[shouting indistinctly]
c0000199
[growling]
c0000200
-[growls]
-[gasps]
c0000201
[gasps]
c0000202
-[growls]
-Huh!
c0000203
[FEMALE HERBALIST 1A]
No!
c0000204
[FEMALE HERBALIST 1A]
When the village was attacked
c0000205
by a vicious monster,
c0000206
the brave Mister Himmel
c0000207
fought with all his might
to defend us.
c0000208
Such a hero should be revered,
not left to crumble.
c0000209
Perhaps,
but not in Himmel's case.
c0000210
It's only fair
that he pays for his pride.
c0000211
When the villagers offered
to make a statue of him,
c0000212
he should have humbly declined.
c0000213
-[snoring]
-[HIMMEL] How is this?
c0000214
You don't think
it's too handsome, right?
c0000215
[FRIEREN] He spent
18 hours choosing a pose,
c0000216
driving the poor sculptor mad.
c0000217
All of that debate
c0000218
and they settled on something
ridiculously ordinary.
c0000219
[chuckles]
I've never heard that before.
c0000220
Come to think of it,
c0000221
there was an elven mage
in the hero's party,
c0000222
wasn't there?
c0000223
So, shall we clean him up?
c0000224
[owl hooting]
c0000225
[FEMALE HERBALIST 1A]
Thank you so much.
c0000226
Magic is an incredible thing.
c0000227
There isn't a speck of rust
anywhere in sight.
c0000228
[smiles]
c0000229
I do wish there was a bit more
color around here, though.
c0000230
I'll have to plant
some flowers soon.
c0000231
We could do that.
c0000232
You have a spell that
produces flowers, don't you?
c0000233
Yes, indeed.
c0000234
I suppose
I could conjure something.
c0000235
No, blue moon weed flowers
would be best.
c0000236
I can't recall that one,
what do they look like?
c0000237
[FRIEREN] I don't know.
I've never seen them.
c0000238
Then why those?
c0000239
Because they grow
in Himmel's hometown.
c0000240
You can't conjure flowers
you haven't seen before.
c0000241
Huh.
c0000242
Uh...
c0000243
[smiles]
c0000244
[FEMALE HERBALIST 1A]
Blue moon weed.
c0000245
Haven't heard that name
in years.
c0000246
Long ago,
c0000247
a beautiful, lush field of them
c0000248
used to bloom
right outside my house.
c0000249
So,
they don't grow here anymore?
c0000250
Seems they died off on us.
c0000251
It's been several decades now
c0000252
since they were last spotted
in these lands.
c0000253
Ah.
c0000254
Fern. Let's go.
c0000255
[FERN]
Coming.
c0000256
[FRIEREN]
You're hiding something.
c0000257
Whatever it is,
I won't be upset.
c0000258
Found friends, did you?
c0000259
I believe they're seed rats.
c0000260
I'll take them outside.
c0000261
Well, Fern?
c0000262
Shall our moon weed quest
commence?
c0000263
Are you joking, Mistress?
c0000264
Why would I be?
c0000265
She said there was
a field of them right here.
c0000266
[FERN]
Decades ago.
c0000267
[FRIEREN] But they're
well worth looking for.
c0000268
If we're able to find
and analyze them.
c0000269
We can conjure blue mood weed
wherever we like.
c0000270
You're doing this
for Himmel's sake?
c0000271
Oh, no.
c0000272
I believe I'm doing it
for my own.
c0000273
♪
c0000274
Mistress Frieren.
c0000275
We've scoured these woods
for six months.
c0000276
I don't think
we're going to find it.
c0000277
[FRIEREN]
You're right.
c0000278
Perhaps it's time we broaden
the radius of our quest.
c0000279
Hmm.
c0000280
[knock on door]
c0000281
Oh.
c0000282
I don't often see you
on your own.
c0000283
It's been quite a while
c0000284
since you two first arrived
in this village.
c0000285
So, have you found
any blue moon weed?
c0000286
[FERN]
Is our search a lost cause?
c0000287
Hmm?
c0000288
She's so quick to fixate
on anything relating to magic.
c0000289
By the looks of it,
c0000290
she's going continue
this hunt for years,
c0000291
if not decades.
c0000292
Given her strength as a mage,
c0000293
she has the power to save
whole cities of people.
c0000294
She shouldn't spend her time
looking for something so tiny.
c0000295
Something that may not exist.
c0000296
You're so young, child.
c0000297
Is that simply
a polite way of saying
c0000298
you think I'm wrong?
c0000299
[FEMALE HERBALIST 1A] No,
and I don't disagree with you.
c0000300
But you see Miss Frieren
c0000301
likely views things differently
than you and me.
c0000302
And because she's so much
more mature than us,
c0000303
I'm sure she'd understand
your feelings.
c0000304
If you say how you feel
with an open heart.
c0000305
I've no doubt
she'll take it well.
c0000306
♪
c0000307
[FERN] They're the seeds
of a related species
c0000308
she kept
for their medicinal properties.
c0000309
Would it be all right
if we planted these
c0000310
around Himmel's statue instead?
c0000311
I hear you, Fern.
c0000312
And I see I've made you worry.
c0000313
Ah.
c0000314
The time I spend isn't solely
my own anymore.
c0000315
We should go.
c0000316
I promise
that I'll end my search soon.
c0000317
Hmph?
c0000318
[FERN] Mistress?
How many years is soon?
c0000319
Ah, soon enough.
c0000320
Please, no.
That's not comforting coming--
c0000321
Shh!
c0000322
[exhales]
c0000323
Huh?
c0000324
Shall we see
where it's heading?
c0000325
[Fern groans]
c0000326
I've been wanting to ask
c0000327
why do you collect spells
in the first place?
c0000328
[FRIEREN]
It's just a hobby of mine.
c0000329
That's quite hard to believe.
c0000330
[FRIEREN]
It's a hobby and a good one.
c0000331
I used to go through my life
c0000332
much more apathetically
before finding it.
c0000333
♪
c0000334
[smiling]
c0000335
[both laughing]
c0000336
c0000337
[FRIEREN]
Gross.
c0000338
Mm?
c0000339
[smiles]
c0000340
[FRIEREN] But then came
a fool who praised me
c0000341
for the magic I acquired.
c0000342
The rest is history.
c0000343
[FERN]
That's a pretty silly reason.
c0000344
[FRIEREN]
I agree.
c0000345
♪
c0000346
[FERN]
Is that...
c0000347
[FRIEREN]
A flower petal.
c0000348
They say seed rats
store their food
c0000349
by burying it in safe places
away from their enemies.
c0000350
[FERN] They're clever
little critters, aren't they?
c0000351
I wouldn't say that.
c0000352
They bury their food all over,
c0000353
so they often forget
where they hide their reserves.
c0000354
[both laughing]
c0000355
[FRIEREN]
Blue moon weed?
c0000356
[HIMMEL]
A flower grown in my homeland.
c0000357
They're truly beautiful.
c0000358
To be fair,
They grow pretty heroes, too.
c0000359
[FRIEREN]
Shall we get going, then?
c0000360
[HIMMEL]
Frieren.
c0000361
I'd like to show you them
someday.
c0000362
Sure.
If the chance arises.
c0000363
I had a feeling
we'd find them here,
c0000364
but I wasn't expecting this.
c0000365
Seems the chance arose at last.
c0000366
I can't believe
that we actually found them.
c0000367
[FRIEREN]
Now we can create a spell
c0000368
to conjure blue moon weed.
c0000369
It's evident
how important magic is to you.
c0000370
I don't understand why.
c0000371
[FRIEREN]
Yes, you do.
c0000372
Becoming a mage
was a challenge,
c0000373
but you never
once wanted to give up.
c0000374
[sighs]
That's very different.
c0000375
I could have learned
any other skill
c0000376
that allowed me
to support myself
c0000377
and been just as content.
c0000378
It didn't have to be magic.
c0000379
[FRIEREN]
No.
c0000380
But it's what you chose.
c0000381
[gasps]
c0000382
[smiles]
c0000383
[FERN]
I guess you're right.
c0000384
[FEMALE HERBALIST 1A]
Blue mood weed.
c0000385
I thought
I would never see it again.
c0000386
It looks beautiful.
c0000387
Hmm.
c0000388
Thank you for your diligence,
Miss Frieren.
c0000389
You've ensured that time
c0000390
will never get the better
of this statue again.
c0000391
Ah?
c0000392
[FRIEREN]
I nearly forgot.
c0000393
There.
c0000394
[FEMALE HERBALIST 1A]
Look at that!
c0000395
An adorable touch.
c0000396
[FRIEREN]
Well, shall we be off?
c0000397
[FERN] A spell with that
much power...
c0000398
[VILLAGER 2A] The Elder
Sage of Corruption,
c0000399
-Qual. -[FRIEREN] Now,
let's put your work to the...
c0000400
[FERN]
Does our journey have
c0000401
a notable purpose this time?
c0000402
[FRIEREN] The great
killing magic of legend.